Another thing that is a really important
is about simplifying not just,
we've talked about the need for
simplification a lot.
We've talked about it in terms
of reducing cognitive load.
We're gonna talk about it again in
terms of designing an interface.
We've talked about it in terms of
keeping our copy concise and simple.
But there's also something to be said for
simplifying the choices that
you put in front of people.
And actually somebody in the chat
room touched upon this when they were
talking about Apple and the complexity
of offerings that they had at one stage,
it's now a lot simpler than it was.
And this is a really interesting scenario.
One of the big mistakes that I
find that people make when they're
asking people to act, is they ask
them to do too many things, right?
And again,
we're gonna come on to this more later.
But we want you to buy our product,
sign up for
our newsletter, get in touch,
follow us on social media.
All of these different things, they're
all competing for people's attention.
And that's just on the website, and
then there's people's product line ups.
Where they have, loads of different
products that are all competing for
attention, or
loads of different offerings.
And actually there's a need
to kind of simplify what you
present to users so
that you don't overwhelm them.
Because what happens is they get
paralyzed with choice, choice paralysis.
There was a famous study that was done in
California in a supermarket
with preserves, jams.
If you're British, we call them jam, but
everybody else calls them preserves.
And what they did is they tried,
first of all,
they had a whole variety
of different jams.
I think it was over 30 varieties of jams
for people to buy in the supermarket.
And then a week or so
later they changed that so
there was just six varieties of jam.
Now if you ask an individual
do they want more choice?
They will always say yes, of course.
But in truth, the 6 jams outsold
the 30 several times over,
because people were overwhelmed
with 30 different choices of jam.
And this idea of simplifying the options
to avoid choice paralysis is really
important.
And it applies to everything we do
from the number of navigation items,
the number of e-commerce categories,
to even the number of products and
calls to action that you have.
And actually Apple is one of
the best examples of this.
There was a period of time when
Steve Jobs wasn't running Apple,
and in that time their
product lineup exploded.
And they ended up with a whole
number of different products and
it was overwhelmingly confusing
to know which product suited you.
But when Steve Jobs came
back into the company,
one of the first things he did on
a whiteboard was draw something like this.
Where he basically identified his
two audiences and his two use cases.
And then he associated
one product with each.
So he radically simplified the lineup
of products that they had so that users
knew what they wanted ,what they needed,
what was right for their situation.
And actually increasingly that's
becoming a problem again in Apple,
that they are adding more and
more products.
So for example when I wanted
a lightweight device for
me traveling to conferences and
doing presentations like this one,
do I get the MacBook Air or the MacBook?
Or the iPad and which size do I need?
And should I actually go for
a MacBook Pro?
There were so many options that
actually it was overwhelming for
a long time I didn't buy anything.
So what this comes down to especially
when it comes to calls to action,
is to simplify the question effectively.
The question is, what should I buy?
What action should I take?
And the more you simplify that, the easier
people are gonna find it to act.
You remember earlier on I talked
about that when we're presented
with a difficult question,
we tend to just give up and guess.
Or the other thing we do is
just abandon and don't try and
answer that question at all.
So this applies not just to
your product lineups, but
actually even to the wording that you
have for things like calls to action.
Let me explain what I mean.
So I did some work with UNICEF, and
on their donation page they had this,
make a donation.
Now when you're faced with
a call to action like that,
that's quite a hard call to action
to make a decision over, right?
So because the question
that goes alongside that,
is UNICEF the most worthy
charity of my donation, right?
And that's quite a complicated
question to answer in your mind.
Because where there's lots
of different charities,
what causes do I care about the most,
how much can I afford and
all of these kinds of different
things that go alongside that.
So that's a big decision to make when it
comes to that and people often choke.
If you could look at the number of people
that go to donation pages across all
charity websites and
you find the conversion rate is very,
very low even though they've clicked
through to a donations page.
However if you reword that slightly to
donate to end the suffering of children,
you're effectively simplifying
the question in people's minds, from, is
UNICEF the best charity to give to, to do
I wanna reduce the suffering of children,
which is a kinda no-brainer really.
So it's focusing people on
the key point here, right?
Instead of the question being,
what's the best charity to give to,
the question is you can help
end suffering of children.
Now again you need to be
a little bit careful,
because some people might find
that emotional blackmail, right?
Saying donate to end
the suffering of children,
especially if it read something like, do I
want to reduce the suffering of children.
It could be emotional blackmail and so you
need to be careful with your audience and
see how they respond to it.
But the principle of taking something
complex and simplifying it down so
it's easily understandable needs
to underpin all of our content.